Welcome to my Pandas Challenge!

For this challenge, I have taken on the role of assisting the school board in figuring out how school budgets should be spent, and I will be performing an analysis on 15 different schools. I would like to mention that these schools are a combination of district and charter schools, so I felt that the conclusion to this analysis is not concrete since district and charter schools are vastly different in how they choose to teach. If the dataset was larger and I was able to separate district and charter schools, then I believe my conclusions would be more cohesive and could be used to consider future spending. However, this is simply practice for me to use data from a school district. 

For my initial analysis, I wanted to make sure that I was able to access each of the CSV files for both the school and the students. From there, I wanted to merge both the datasets with a common factor of "school_name", so that it would make data manipulation a lot easier down the line. Once I had a complete dataset that contained all the data, I wanted to find some general information about the dataset, such as total schools, total students, total budget, the average score of math and reading, the percentage of students passing math and reading, and the overall percent of students passing in general. From the district summary, I could start to understand what topics I wanted to explore further and break down the data even more. In the school summary, I was able to display all the different high schools from their respective types, student count, budget, and test scores. This dataset still did not give me a clear picture of how the data was behaving since the district and charter schools were mixed together. That is why I decided to filter the dataset so that I could see the top 5 schools and the bottom 5 schools. From the dataset, we can see that the top-performing schools were all charter schools, and the budget per student was around $578 to $638. Additionally, the bottom-performing schools were all district schools, and the budget per student ranged from $637 to $655. We can see that the budget per student is greater for district schools, but it is not greater by a drastic amount. Also, I felt as though we have to consider that the total amount of students for charter schools ranged from 962 to 2283 students, while district schools had a range of 2917 to 4761. District schools have almost double the amount of students per school, and the budget per student is not that much larger than it is for charter schools. 

I proceeded to analyze the data further and separate the test scores by grade level. Upon initial analysis, the math and reading scores for grade levels 9 through 12 did not look drastically different. It was apparent that the math scores seemed to be lower compared to reading scores, but the difference between the grade levels was not exponential. I decided to add another category to the table, and I wanted to place each high school into a bin to see if the data would show anything significant. The spending summary does show that schools that spent less than $585 per student ended up having students performing higher in math and reading, and the overall passing rate was higher as well. Furthermore, I separated the data by the "score by school size", and the data showed the same results. Less money per student means that students may perform better in math and reading. However, I want everyone to consider that the dataset consists of district and charter schools. Charter schools are more like private schools and have a much smaller population of students, so this could affect the data as a whole. A smaller population of students means that teachers have more opportunities to create specialized plans for their smaller classes and can help students more one-on-one. That brings me to my last analysis, which is where I separate charter and district schools. It is very apparent that charter schools outperform their district schools. 

In order for this analysis to be successful and to showcase meaningful significance, I believe a larger dataset from more school districts would be beneficial to consider. Additionally, it seems unfair to compare charter and district schools to one another since they are systemically different, and the difference in student population is great. Nonetheless, I do believe that this dataset has shown us that smaller schools do outperform larger schools. That could be for a multitude of reasons that are not shown within this dataset, so there may need to be further data gathering to understand why. 

Thank you for checking out my jupyter notebook and reading through my analysis. I hope that this dataset was interesting to observe and that it will bring forth conversation on whether or not we should consider having a smaller student population per school to ensure student success in their education. 
